hello and welcome to the 2013 bike
magazine Bible of bike test roundtable
discussions I'm here with Travis Bryce
and Seb and I'm squirrel and we're
talking about the GT distortion 2.0
it's one of my favorite bikes from GT
it's been around for three years now
last year I picked it as my editors a
choice for my favorite bike it just it
really is it's a really unique and
interesting bike it's got a hundred and
fourteen millimeters of rear travel and
150 millimeters up front it's it's it's
kind of a bike that transcends three
different categories XE trail and
all-mountain do you guys agree with me
with that I think we even thought it had
transcends a few more categories
yeah Kyle's straight can the call doing
a slope style and do a slalom on it it's
it's a very versatile bike it's what is
it makes it better stop what is it that
makes you so great I think that's that's
what yeah I think it has to do with the
the stoutness of the frame and the the
angles the the head angle is sixty six
and a half degrees already Seska is that
kind of geometry we're saying fit for
this category were in the trail but it's
quite a radical geometry category and I
think it's what Braves of GT of dumbness
it's a risk it's one of those bikes that
is not it's not for everyone I think
everyone could find something they would
love in it and I think it's it's for and
this I'm gonna total stroke of my ego
here because I loved it too but it's for
a more refined maybe more maybe more
technically adept rider somebody who
isn't looking for something that's six
and six just so that they can plow over
fields or rocks I mean we even found
that it was a little more likely to
pinch flat if you try and do that it's
for a more nuanced kind of ride if you
it loves getting up on that back wheel I
mean
one of the courses we wrote it on add a
couple little drops slow speed you could
just pop it on that back wheel and drop
off the stuff I mean and I think that's
thanks partially to the geometry but
mostly to that unheard-of travel
combination I mean you couldn't just
take a you know one hundred hundred
twenty mile bike and slap a six-inch
fork on and have it feel like this I
mean they built it from the ground up to
be what it is there are unfortunately
few downsides to this bike one is it's a
bit heavy it's 33 pounds which is you
know for a 26 inch bike in this category
it's it's it's a bit of a pig but it
doesn't it doesn't pedal like it's 33
pounds it's got a really efficient rear
suspension I really picked most of that
weight because of the I Drive a lot of
that weight just down there right by the
cranks so so when you guys when you do
throw it around it doesn't feel quite as
heavy yeah I mean things like the tires
it's got heavy tires
yes my mini is 2 to 300 K that's heavy
that's risky but it was brilliant
because you could just bury the you bury
the tires like balls deep in a coma it's
like it unlike a lot of other bikes in
this category they come with tinit eyes
these no compromise ties brilliant
another downside it's 3,300 bucks for
this bike
Alex rims lackluster dropper post you
know SLX
which SLX is great but not just like for
3 300 bucks thanks the cranks are
countable ya know I'm a bailius in
France it's it's it's a shame because
this bike is gonna anybody who is
attracted to it it's gonna enjoy it once
they get into their garage but it's the
week it's a risk for people I think we
need mobile I sighs yeah I personally
think we need more man Mike's that brave
and a geared towards having fun
like lots of crazy rock-and-roll fun I'm
sure this is definitely in my top three
of the tryout category and it's still my
hot perhaps first rise top three or four
it depends on what your what your
writing before I think if we're the fact
that it spans categories and it's a
great all-rounder would put it in the
top three I wanted a kid getting on it
and seeing what else you could do yeah
or rather what I can do with it
swirl I think you like yeah I read I I
love this bike it's it's not gonna be
the the most fast trail rocket out there
but it's gonna be one of the most fun
bikes to ride I think and one that you
can just read going downhill and it's
gonna get you to the top it's gonna and
it it just it pumps through stuff
because of that short travel in the back
and it's just a riot to ride